SECURITY.md, before:

# 🔒 DNSWorth Security Documentation

## Overview

This document outlines the comprehensive security measures implemented in DNSWorth to ensure the highest level of protection for users and the application.

## 🚨 Security Status

**Current Status**: 🟢 **SECURE - AUDIT PASSED**

**Last Audit**: Today
**Next Audit Due**: 30 days
**Security Score**: 95/100

## 🔍 Security Features Implemented

### **1. Application Security**

#### **Input Validation & Sanitization**
- ✅ Domain name regex validation
- ✅ Input length limits (max 253 characters)
- ✅ TLD validation against allowed list
- ✅ Pattern blocking (IP addresses, hashes, etc.)
- ✅ XSS prevention through input sanitization
- ✅ SQL injection prevention
- ✅ Protocol injection protection

#### **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ IP-based rate limiting
- ✅ User-agent fingerprinting
- ✅ Configurable limits (dev: 500/15min, prod: 50/15min)
- ✅ Redis support for production scaling
- ✅ Rate limit violation logging

#### **CORS & Origin Protection**
- ✅ Strict CORS configuration
- ✅ Origin validation
- ✅ Credentials handling
- ✅ Preflight request handling
- ✅ Configurable allowed origins

### **2. HTTP Security Headers**

#### **Helmet.js Implementation**
- ✅ Content Security Policy (CSP)
- ✅ X-Frame-Options: DENY
- ✅ X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
- ✅ X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
- ✅ Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS)
- ✅ Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin
- ✅ Permissions-Policy restrictions

#### **Custom Security Headers**
- ✅ X-Request-ID for request tracking
- ✅ Custom security policy headers
- ✅ Cache control headers
- ✅ Security-focused response headers

### **3. API Security**

#### **Request Validation**
- ✅ Content-Type validation
- ✅ Request size limits (5MB max)
- ✅ Required headers validation
- ✅ Request timeout handling
- ✅ Abort controller implementation

#### **Response Security**
- ✅ No sensitive data in responses
- ✅ Error message sanitization
- ✅ Request ID tracking
- ✅ Secure error logging

### **4. Data Protection**

#### **No Sensitive Data Storage**
- ✅ No API keys in frontend
- ✅ No user data persistence
- ✅ No session storage
- ✅ No cookies with sensitive data

#### **Secure Data Handling**
- ✅ Environment variable usage
- ✅ Configuration template system
- ✅ Secret rotation support
- ✅ Production hardening

## 🛡️ Security Measures by Layer

### **Frontend Security**
- ✅ No API keys exposed
- ✅ Secure donation link handling
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ XSS prevention
- ✅ Secure routing

### **Backend Security**
- ✅ Express.js security middleware
- ✅ Helmet.js implementation
- ✅ Rate limiting
- ✅ CORS protection
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ Error handling

### **Infrastructure Security**
- ✅ Environment-based configuration
- ✅ Secure startup scripts
- ✅ Port configuration
- ✅ Development vs production modes

## 🔧 Security Configuration

### **Environment Variables Required**

```bash
# Server Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0

# Security Configuration
SESSION_SECRET=your-32-character-secret
JWT_SECRET=your-32-character-secret
ENCRYPTION_KEY=your-32-character-key

# Rate Limiting
RATE_LIMIT_WINDOW_MS=900000
RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS=50

# CORS Configuration
ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://dnsworth.com,https://www.dnsworth.com

# External API

HUMBLEWORTH_API_URL=https://valuation.humbleworth.com/api/valuation

# Redis (Production)
REDIS_HOST=your-redis-host
REDIS_PORT=6379
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
REDIS_DB=0

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=warn
SECURITY_LOG_LEVEL=warn
AUDIT_LOG_ENABLED=true

# Donation Links
VITE_DONATION_LINK=https://www.paypal.me/dekunley
VITE_DONATION_BACKUP=https://www.paypal.me/dekunley
```

### **Security Headers Configuration**

```javascript
// Helmet.js Configuration
const helmetConfig = {
  contentSecurityPolicy: {
    directives: {
      defaultSrc: ["'self'"],
      styleSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      scriptSrc: ["'self'"],
      imgSrc: ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
      connectSrc: ["'self'"],
      fontSrc: ["'self'", "https:"],
      objectSrc: ["'none'"],
      mediaSrc: ["'self'"],
      frameSrc: ["'none'"],
      baseUri: ["'self'"],
      formAction: ["'self'"]
    }
  },
  hsts: {
    maxAge: 31536000,
    includeSubDomains: true,
    preload: true
  },
  noSniff: true,
  referrerPolicy: { policy: 'strict-origin-when-cross-origin' },
  frameguard: { action: 'deny' },
  xssFilter: true,
  hidePoweredBy: true,
  ieNoOpen: true,
  dnsPrefetchControl: { allow: false }
};
```

## 🚨 Security Vulnerabilities & Fixes

### **Critical Issues Fixed**

1. **API Key Exposure** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: API keys were exposed in frontend code
   - **Fix**: Moved all API calls to backend proxy
   - **Status**: Resolved

2. **Pro Verification Middleware** ✅ REMOVED
   - **Issue**: Unused middleware with potential security risks
   - **Fix**: Completely removed from codebase
   - **Status**: Resolved

3. **Hardcoded Configuration** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: Security settings were hardcoded
   - **Fix**: Environment-based configuration system
   - **Status**: Resolved

4. **Insufficient .gitignore** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: Sensitive files could be committed
   - **Fix**: Comprehensive .gitignore with security exclusions
   - **Status**: Resolved

### **Security Improvements Made**

1. **Enhanced Input Validation**
   - Added comprehensive domain validation
   - Implemented pattern blocking
   - Added TLD validation

2. **Improved Rate Limiting**
   - Added user-agent fingerprinting
   - Implemented configurable limits
   - Added Redis support for production

3. **Security Headers**
   - Implemented CSP policy
   - Added HSTS support
   - Enhanced XSS protection

4. **Configuration Security**
   - Template-based configuration
   - Environment variable usage
   - Secret rotation support

## 🔍 Security Audit Process

### **Automated Security Scan**

```bash
# Run the security audit script
node security-audit.js

# Expected output:
# 🔒 DNSWorth Security Audit
# 📝 Checking for forbidden patterns...
# 🚨 Checking for critical security files...
# 📋 Checking .gitignore configuration...
# 📦 Checking dependencies...
# 🌍 Checking environment variable usage...
# 🔐 Checking file permissions...
```

### **Manual Security Checks**

1. **Dependency Vulnerabilities**
   ```bash
   npm audit
   npm audit fix
   ```

2. **Code Security Review**
   - Check for hardcoded secrets
   - Verify input validation
   - Review error handling
   - Check for XSS vulnerabilities

3. **Configuration Review**
   - Verify environment variables
   - Check CORS configuration
   - Review rate limiting settings
   - Validate security headers

### **Production Security Checklist**

- [ ] HTTPS enabled with valid SSL certificates
- [ ] Environment variables properly configured
- [ ] Rate limiting configured for production
- [ ] Security headers enabled
- [ ] CORS origins restricted to production domains
- [ ] Logging and monitoring enabled
- [ ] Regular security updates scheduled
- [ ] Security incident response plan in place
- [ ] Backup and recovery procedures tested
- [ ] Security monitoring and alerting configured

## 🚨 Incident Response

### **Security Incident Classification**

1. **Critical (P0)**
   - Data breach
   - System compromise
   - API key exposure
   - Response time: 1 hour

2. **High (P1)**
   - Unauthorized access
   - Rate limit bypass
   - Input validation bypass
   - Response time: 4 hours

3. **Medium (P2)**
   - Security header misconfiguration
   - Logging issues
   - Configuration errors
   - Response time: 24 hours

4. **Low (P3)**
   - Minor security warnings
   - Documentation updates
   - Response time: 72 hours

### **Response Procedures**

1. **Immediate Response**
   - Isolate affected systems
   - Assess impact and scope
   - Document incident details
   - Notify security team

2. **Containment**
   - Stop the attack
   - Prevent data loss
   - Secure compromised accounts
   - Update security measures

3. **Recovery**
   - Restore from clean backups
   - Verify system integrity
   - Update security policies
   - Monitor for recurrence

4. **Post-Incident**
   - Conduct post-mortem
   - Update incident response plan
   - Improve security measures
   - Document lessons learned

## 📊 Security Metrics

### **Key Performance Indicators**

- **Security Score**: 95/100 (Excellent)
- **Critical Issues**: 0 (All resolved)
- **High Priority Warnings**: 0
- **Medium Priority Warnings**: 14 (URL configurations)
- **Last Security Update**: Today
- **Dependencies**: All up to date
- **Security Headers**: 100% implemented
- **Rate Limiting**: Active and configured
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive coverage
- **Security Audit**: PASSED ✅

### **Monitoring & Alerting**

- **Security Events**: Logged and monitored
- **Rate Limit Violations**: Tracked and reported
- **Failed Authentication**: Monitored
- **Input Validation Failures**: Logged
- **Error Patterns**: Analyzed for security issues

## 🔮 Security Roadmap

### **Short Term (1-3 months)**
- [ ] Implement security monitoring dashboard
- [ ] Add automated vulnerability scanning
- [ ] Enhance logging and audit trails
- [ ] Implement security metrics collection

### **Medium Term (3-6 months)**
- [ ] Add penetration testing
- [ ] Implement security automation
- [ ] Enhanced threat detection
- [ ] Security training for team

### **Long Term (6+ months)**
- [ ] SOC 2 compliance
- [ ] Advanced threat hunting
- [ ] Security orchestration
- [ ] Zero-trust architecture

## 📞 Security Contact

### **Security Team**
- **Email**: security@dnsworth.com
- **Response Time**: Within 24 hours
- **PGP Key**: Available upon request
- **Emergency**: +1-XXX-XXX-XXXX

### **Reporting Security Issues**
1. **Email**: security@dnsworth.com
2. **Subject**: [SECURITY] Brief description
3. **Include**: Steps to reproduce, impact assessment
4. **Response**: Within 24 hours guaranteed

### **Security Disclosure Policy**
- **Responsible disclosure** encouraged
- **No legal action** against security researchers
- **Recognition** for valid security reports
- **Timeline**: 90 days for critical issues

---

**Last Updated**: Today  
**Next Review**: 30 days  
**Security Status**: 🟢 AUDIT PASSED - SECURE  

**Remember**: Security is everyone's responsibility!

Commit message:

🔒 Enhanced Security Hygiene & Public Communication
🔐 Environment Variable Security:
- Renamed sensitive variables to abstract names (APP_SECRET_1, APP_SECRET_2, APP_SECRET_3)
- Updated all configuration files and documentation
- Improved security through reduced information disclosure

📚 Documentation Enhancements:
- Added security disclaimer under Security Features section
- Enhanced API section with rate limit warnings and usage guidelines
- Updated API endpoint with protection notices
- Improved responsible disclosure policy in SECURITY.md

🤖 Crawler Control:
- Added comprehensive robots.txt to prevent API endpoint indexing
- Disallows automated scraping of sensitive endpoints
- Sets respectful crawl delays and sitemap references

🛡️ Security Improvements:
- Enhanced responsible disclosure policy with safe harbor
- Coordinated disclosure timelines (90d critical, 30d high priority)
- Professional security communication standards
- Better open source security hygiene

📁 Files Updated:
- env.template, config.example.js (root & dnsworth/)
- README.md, SECURITY.md, SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md
- robots.txt (new file)
- All documentation synchronized with new naming convention

✅ Maintains all existing functionality while significantly improving security posture and public communication standards.

SECURITY.md, after:

# 🔒 DNSWorth Security Documentation

## Overview

This document outlines the comprehensive security measures implemented in DNSWorth to ensure the highest level of protection for users and the application.

## 🚨 Security Status

**Current Status**: 🟢 **SECURE - AUDIT PASSED**

**Last Audit**: Today
**Next Audit Due**: 30 days
**Security Score**: 95/100

## 🔍 Security Features Implemented

### **1. Application Security**

#### **Input Validation & Sanitization**
- ✅ Domain name regex validation
- ✅ Input length limits (max 253 characters)
- ✅ TLD validation against allowed list
- ✅ Pattern blocking (IP addresses, hashes, etc.)
- ✅ XSS prevention through input sanitization
- ✅ SQL injection prevention
- ✅ Protocol injection protection

#### **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ IP-based rate limiting
- ✅ User-agent fingerprinting
- ✅ Configurable limits (dev: 500/15min, prod: 50/15min)
- ✅ Redis support for production scaling
- ✅ Rate limit violation logging

#### **CORS & Origin Protection**
- ✅ Strict CORS configuration
- ✅ Origin validation
- ✅ Credentials handling
- ✅ Preflight request handling
- ✅ Configurable allowed origins

### **2. HTTP Security Headers**

#### **Helmet.js Implementation**
- ✅ Content Security Policy (CSP)
- ✅ X-Frame-Options: DENY
- ✅ X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
- ✅ X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
- ✅ Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS)
- ✅ Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin
- ✅ Permissions-Policy restrictions

#### **Custom Security Headers**
- ✅ X-Request-ID for request tracking
- ✅ Custom security policy headers
- ✅ Cache control headers
- ✅ Security-focused response headers

### **3. API Security**

#### **Request Validation**
- ✅ Content-Type validation
- ✅ Request size limits (5MB max)
- ✅ Required headers validation
- ✅ Request timeout handling
- ✅ Abort controller implementation

#### **Response Security**
- ✅ No sensitive data in responses
- ✅ Error message sanitization
- ✅ Request ID tracking
- ✅ Secure error logging

### **4. Data Protection**

#### **No Sensitive Data Storage**
- ✅ No API keys in frontend
- ✅ No user data persistence
- ✅ No session storage
- ✅ No cookies with sensitive data

#### **Secure Data Handling**
- ✅ Environment variable usage
- ✅ Configuration template system
- ✅ Secret rotation support
- ✅ Production hardening

## 🛡️ Security Measures by Layer

### **Frontend Security**
- ✅ No API keys exposed
- ✅ Secure donation link handling
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ XSS prevention
- ✅ Secure routing

### **Backend Security**
- ✅ Express.js security middleware
- ✅ Helmet.js implementation
- ✅ Rate limiting
- ✅ CORS protection
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ Error handling

### **Infrastructure Security**
- ✅ Environment-based configuration
- ✅ Secure startup scripts
- ✅ Port configuration
- ✅ Development vs production modes

## 🔧 Security Configuration

### **Environment Variables Required**

```bash
# Server Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0

# Security Configuration
APP_SECRET_1=your-32-character-secret
APP_SECRET_2=your-32-character-secret
APP_SECRET_3=your-32-character-key

# Rate Limiting
RATE_LIMIT_WINDOW_MS=900000
RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS=50

# CORS Configuration
ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://dnsworth.com,https://www.dnsworth.com

# External API

HUMBLEWORTH_API_URL=https://valuation.humbleworth.com/api/valuation

# Redis (Production)
REDIS_HOST=your-redis-host
REDIS_PORT=6379
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
REDIS_DB=0

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=warn
SECURITY_LOG_LEVEL=warn
AUDIT_LOG_ENABLED=true

# Donation Links
VITE_DONATION_LINK=https://www.paypal.me/dekunley
VITE_DONATION_BACKUP=https://www.paypal.me/dekunley
```

### **Security Headers Configuration**

```javascript
// Helmet.js Configuration
const helmetConfig = {
  contentSecurityPolicy: {
    directives: {
      defaultSrc: ["'self'"],
      styleSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      scriptSrc: ["'self'"],
      imgSrc: ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
      connectSrc: ["'self'"],
      fontSrc: ["'self'", "https:"],
      objectSrc: ["'none'"],
      mediaSrc: ["'self'"],
      frameSrc: ["'none'"],
      baseUri: ["'self'"],
      formAction: ["'self'"]
    }
  },
  hsts: {
    maxAge: 31536000,
    includeSubDomains: true,
    preload: true
  },
  noSniff: true,
  referrerPolicy: { policy: 'strict-origin-when-cross-origin' },
  frameguard: { action: 'deny' },
  xssFilter: true,
  hidePoweredBy: true,
  ieNoOpen: true,
  dnsPrefetchControl: { allow: false }
};
```

## 🚨 Security Vulnerabilities & Fixes

### **Critical Issues Fixed**

1. **API Key Exposure** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: API keys were exposed in frontend code
   - **Fix**: Moved all API calls to backend proxy
   - **Status**: Resolved

2. **Pro Verification Middleware** ✅ REMOVED
   - **Issue**: Unused middleware with potential security risks
   - **Fix**: Completely removed from codebase
   - **Status**: Resolved

3. **Hardcoded Configuration** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: Security settings were hardcoded
   - **Fix**: Environment-based configuration system
   - **Status**: Resolved

4. **Insufficient .gitignore** ✅ FIXED
   - **Issue**: Sensitive files could be committed
   - **Fix**: Comprehensive .gitignore with security exclusions
   - **Status**: Resolved

### **Security Improvements Made**

1. **Enhanced Input Validation**
   - Added comprehensive domain validation
   - Implemented pattern blocking
   - Added TLD validation

2. **Improved Rate Limiting**
   - Added user-agent fingerprinting
   - Implemented configurable limits
   - Added Redis support for production

3. **Security Headers**
   - Implemented CSP policy
   - Added HSTS support
   - Enhanced XSS protection

4. **Configuration Security**
   - Template-based configuration
   - Environment variable usage
   - Secret rotation support

## 🔍 Security Audit Process

### **Automated Security Scan**

```bash
# Run the security audit script
node security-audit.js

# Expected output:
# 🔒 DNSWorth Security Audit
# 📝 Checking for forbidden patterns...
# 🚨 Checking for critical security files...
# 📋 Checking .gitignore configuration...
# 📦 Checking dependencies...
# 🌍 Checking environment variable usage...
# 🔐 Checking file permissions...
```

### **Manual Security Checks**

1. **Dependency Vulnerabilities**
   ```bash
   npm audit
   npm audit fix
   ```

2. **Code Security Review**
   - Check for hardcoded secrets
   - Verify input validation
   - Review error handling
   - Check for XSS vulnerabilities

3. **Configuration Review**
   - Verify environment variables
   - Check CORS configuration
   - Review rate limiting settings
   - Validate security headers

### **Production Security Checklist**

- [ ] HTTPS enabled with valid SSL certificates
- [ ] Environment variables properly configured
- [ ] Rate limiting configured for production
- [ ] Security headers enabled
- [ ] CORS origins restricted to production domains
- [ ] Logging and monitoring enabled
- [ ] Regular security updates scheduled
- [ ] Security incident response plan in place
- [ ] Backup and recovery procedures tested
- [ ] Security monitoring and alerting configured

## 🚨 Incident Response

### **Security Incident Classification**

1. **Critical (P0)**
   - Data breach
   - System compromise
   - API key exposure
   - Response time: 1 hour

2. **High (P1)**
   - Unauthorized access
   - Rate limit bypass
   - Input validation bypass
   - Response time: 4 hours

3. **Medium (P2)**
   - Security header misconfiguration
   - Logging issues
   - Configuration errors
   - Response time: 24 hours

4. **Low (P3)**
   - Minor security warnings
   - Documentation updates
   - Response time: 72 hours

### **Response Procedures**

1. **Immediate Response**
   - Isolate affected systems
   - Assess impact and scope
   - Document incident details
   - Notify security team

2. **Containment**
   - Stop the attack
   - Prevent data loss
   - Secure compromised accounts
   - Update security measures

3. **Recovery**
   - Restore from clean backups
   - Verify system integrity
   - Update security policies
   - Monitor for recurrence

4. **Post-Incident**
   - Conduct post-mortem
   - Update incident response plan
   - Improve security measures
   - Document lessons learned

## 📊 Security Metrics

### **Key Performance Indicators**

- **Security Score**: 95/100 (Excellent)
- **Critical Issues**: 0 (All resolved)
- **High Priority Warnings**: 0
- **Medium Priority Warnings**: 14 (URL configurations)
- **Last Security Update**: Today
- **Dependencies**: All up to date
- **Security Headers**: 100% implemented
- **Rate Limiting**: Active and configured
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive coverage
- **Security Audit**: PASSED ✅

### **Monitoring & Alerting**

- **Security Events**: Logged and monitored
- **Rate Limit Violations**: Tracked and reported
- **Failed Authentication**: Monitored
- **Input Validation Failures**: Logged
- **Error Patterns**: Analyzed for security issues

## 🔮 Security Roadmap

### **Short Term (1-3 months)**
- [ ] Implement security monitoring dashboard
- [ ] Add automated vulnerability scanning
- [ ] Enhance logging and audit trails
- [ ] Implement security metrics collection

### **Medium Term (3-6 months)**
- [ ] Add penetration testing
- [ ] Implement security automation
- [ ] Enhanced threat detection
- [ ] Security training for team

### **Long Term (6+ months)**
- [ ] SOC 2 compliance
- [ ] Advanced threat hunting
- [ ] Security orchestration
- [ ] Zero-trust architecture

## 📞 Security Contact

### **Security Team**
- **Email**: security@dnsworth.com
- **Response Time**: Within 24 hours
- **PGP Key**: Available upon request
- **Emergency**: +1-XXX-XXX-XXXX

### **Reporting Security Issues**
1. **Email**: security@dnsworth.com
2. **Subject**: [SECURITY] Brief description
3. **Include**: Steps to reproduce, impact assessment
4. **Response**: Within 24 hours guaranteed

### **Responsible Disclosure Policy**
- **Responsible disclosure** encouraged and appreciated
- **No legal action** against security researchers acting in good faith
- **Recognition** for valid security reports in our security acknowledgments
- **Timeline**: 90 days for critical issues, 30 days for high priority
- **Coordination**: We will coordinate with researchers on disclosure timing
- **Safe Harbor**: Security research conducted in accordance with this policy will not result in legal action

---

**Last Updated**: Today  
**Next Review**: 30 days  
**Security Status**: 🟢 AUDIT PASSED - SECURE  

**Remember**: Security is everyone's responsibility!
